GDPR data privacy

Article 12 — Transparency and communication
You have to explain how you process data in “a concise, transparent, 
intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language”. You must 
also make it easy for people to make requests to you (e.g., a right to erasure 
request, etc.) and respond to those requests quickly and adequately.

Articles 13 & 14 — When collecting personal data
At the moment you collect personal data from a user, you need to communicate 
specific information to them. If you don’t collect the information directly from 
the user, you are still required to provide them with similar information. These 
articles list the exact information you have to provide.

Article 15 — Right of access
Data subjects have the right to know certain information about the processing 
activities of a data controller. This information includes the source of their 
personal data, the purpose of processing, and the length of time the data will be 
held, among other items. Most importantly, they have a right to be provided with 
the personal data of theirs that you’re processing.

Article 16 — Accuracy
The accuracy of the data you process is only tangentially an aspect of data privacy, 
but people have a right to correct inaccurate or incomplete personal data that you 
are processing.

Article 17 — Right to erasure
Also known as the “right to be forgotten,” data subjects have the right to request 
that you delete any information about them that you have. There are five exemptions 
to this right, including when processing their data is necessary to exercise your 
right to freedom of expression. You must make it simple for data subjects to file 
right to erasure requests.

Article 18 — Right to restrict processing
Short of asking you to erase their data, data subjects can request that you 
temporarily change the way you process their data (such as removing it temporarily 
from your website) if they believe the information is inaccurate, is being used 
illegally, or is no longer needed by the controller for the purposes claimed. The 
data subject has the right to simply object to your processing of their data as 
well. Also important to note: If you decide to take any action related to Articles 
16, 17, or 18, then Article 19 requires you to notify the data subject.

Article 20 — Data portability
Remember that data privacy is the measure of control that people have over who can 
access their personal information. In line with this principle, the GDPR contains a 
novel data privacy requirement known as data portability. Basically, you have to 
store your users’ personal data in a format that can be easily shared with others 
and understood. Moreover, if someone asks you to send their data to a designated 
third party, you have to do it (if technically feasible), even if it’s one of your 
competitors.

Article 21 — Right to object
Data subjects have the right to object to you processing their data. You can only 
override their objection by demonstrating the legitimate basis for using their data.

-As retrieved from gdpr.eu
